This repo, AWS for
frontend has a very like simple react demo
app that we're just going
to use to deploy it.
It's got some client side routes.
The normal stuff that you might see as
well as kind of all the things that we're
gonna talk about with some pictures in
a lot of cases with arrows and kind of.
Everything I'm ging to say is
also written out as well, so
you can kind of follow along both as
I'm going through it as well as kind of
refer to this stuff later as well.
We're using some of the least
expensive parts of AWS, right?
They are ways to run yourself up.
A hefty bill in AWS but typically, s3 and
CloudFront are not a ways to do it.
Even at full cost like I believe
the CloudFront functions,
I think after you blow through
the free tier is three
quarters of a penny for
10,000 requests, right?
And stuff along those lines.
But there is also a kind of
free tier that you get for
your first year in AWS which is going to
cover a lot of what we're gonna need for
now, we care mostly about these
first three I just threw a few other
ones in there because they
might be of interest.
To some of us which is you get about
five gigabytes of storage on s3,
there's some joke in there about how
the like size of your average client side
application keeps growing.
Probably not to five gigs.
So right.
I'm also gonna keep that in mind too
because there are certain choices
that I'm going to make where I will
explain my thinking around them,
but you might philosophically
make a different choice, for
instance I'll kind of
give you one of them now.
When I build a new version of the
application, index that HQL is fresh, but
all of the JavaScript and
CSS files are fingerprinted,
I don't remove the old ones
cuz like one time in 2017,
somebody accidentally deleted the wrong
JavaScript files and took down production.
For once, it was not me.
Normally when production goes down,
it's my fault.
But so those are reasons that
you might choose that that does
not fit with your just, general aesthetic.
And that is totally fine.
That is just my choice.
Cloudfront we get one terabyte of data
transfer people pulling down the cached
versions of our site.
So that is part of also why.
And some of these also have like
a monthly amount of free usage as well.
It's usually like only once you're over
and we expel stuff from the cache and
Cloudfront you get 1000
invalidations a month.
So a question I got a lot of times was
like what happens if we go past that?
One, it's like pennies and
two if we're deploying more than
1000 times a month I'm okay, right?
My team will pay for those pennies.
So, yeah just kind of things to
kind of think about their ways.
They're always to kind of calculate this,
but like I said sometimes you don't really
know and usually your biggest bills
are from boobers not from the paved path.
But like I said for the technologies
that we will we'll be using
today a lot of them are definitely some of
the safer for your wallet in these casese.
That said even if you're using the free
tier AWS is not going to let you
sign up without a credit card.
Part of the reason for that is yes,
in case you do run up a big bill,
the other part having worked
at SAS companies before,
which is if you give people access to your
infrastructure, and you don't make them
give you a credit card,
they will use it for bad things, right?
So a lot of cases like some of that is
just fraud prevention stuff as well.
So with that we're going to go through
the process of setting up an account.
I have some of
the screenshots here as well.
I'm gonna go through it with you but
at some point we will kind of take a break
as I do the fun part of putting in
my phone number and my credit card